README.md, before:

# Soil

A foundational set of ideas to help building enduring web applications.

## Motivation
The pace with which the web ecosystem evolves is unthinkably fast. Parallel to
this, popular web frameworks tend to create architectures with poor
interoperability with tools built on top of standard technologies. Projects
based on them are left with the choice of deprecation and long-term
unmaintenability, or the expense of unreasonable amounts of resources to try to
keep the community's transformation rate.

Soil aims at defining a basic set of concepts that embrace today's web standards
and thus last longer, while being competitive with commonly-used frameworks in
areas such as reliability, testability, reusability, development experience and
performance.

## Basics
Soil encourages a structure around *components*, conceptually similar to the
[Web Components](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Web_Components)'
proposal. They are pieces whose responsability is to render UI elements and
control the interaction with them, both from the user and other components.

Technically, they are functions which accept an object to configure their
initial state and handle subscriptions (as a means to establish child-to-parent
communications), and return another object with a set of *messages* (functions)
that the component understands (allowing for parent-to-child exchanges).

Components dynamically create and manipulate the HTML elements they manage,
using globally-available functions with a one-to-one correspondence with HTML
elements. This provides a look-and-feel similar to regular HTML, but adds some
type safety on top.

Logic other than that to control the user interface should be pushed out of the
components into *services*, classes that get injected into components and are
concerned with server communication, where (most of) the business logic should
be placed. Services may also serve as a way to communicate components that are
not close in the shared component hierarchy.

The different pieces are glued together through [pure DI](http://blog.ploeh.dk/2014/06/10/pure-di/)
at the application's [composition root](http://blog.ploeh.dk/2011/07/28/CompositionRoot/).
In particular, every component has a *factory* associated with it, through which
it will get its dependencies.

```typescript
const counter = (/* Dependencies. */) => (args: {initalValue: number}) {

    const count = args.initialValue || 0

    // For conciseness, variables holding references to HTML elements are
    // prefixed with "$" by convention.
    const $count = span({}, count)

    const $el = div({}, [
        button({onclick: decrement}, '-'),
        $count,
        button({onclick: increment}, '+')
    ])

    function decrement() {
        count--
        $count.textContent = count
    }

    function increment() {
        count++
        $count.textContent = count
    }

    // In order for other components to incorporate this one, a read-only
    // reference to the local HTML root is returned as part of the public
    // interface.
    return {$el, decrement, increment}
}
```

As you may have noticed, Soil leverages type safety through TypeScript.

## Installation
*An npm package is on the making.*

## Contributions
Please, feel free and encouraged to [open new discussions](https://github.com/inad9300/Soil/issues)
on any non-technical topic that may help maturing Soil. For technical
contributions, merge requests are also welcomed.

## License
The Soil project is licensed under the [GNU Affero General Public License](https://github.com/inad9300/Soil/blob/master/LICENSE).

Commit message:

Add reference to examples and code to the README

README.md, after:

# Soil

A foundational set of ideas to help building enduring web applications.

## Motivation
The pace with which the web ecosystem evolves is unthinkably fast. Parallel to
this, popular web frameworks tend to create architectures with poor
interoperability with tools built on top of standard technologies. Projects
based on them are left with the choice of deprecation and long-term
unmaintenability, or the expense of unreasonable amounts of resources to try to
keep the community's transformation rate.

Soil aims at defining a basic set of concepts that embrace today's web standards
and thus last longer, while being competitive with commonly-used frameworks in
areas such as reliability, testability, reusability, development experience and
performance.

## Basics
Soil encourages a structure around *components*, conceptually similar to the
[Web Components](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Web_Components)'
proposal. They are pieces whose responsability is to render UI elements and
control the interaction with them, both from the user and other components.

Technically, they are functions which accept an object to configure their
initial state and handle subscriptions (as a means to establish child-to-parent
communications), and return another object with a set of *messages* (functions)
that the component understands (allowing for parent-to-child exchanges).

Components dynamically create and manipulate the HTML elements they manage,
using globally-available functions with a one-to-one correspondence with HTML
elements. This provides a look-and-feel similar to regular HTML, but adds some
type safety on top.

Logic other than that to control the user interface should be pushed out of the
components into *services*, classes that get injected into components and are
concerned with server communication, where (most of) the business logic should
be placed. Services may also serve as a way to communicate components that are
not close in the shared component hierarchy.

The different pieces are glued together through [pure DI](http://blog.ploeh.dk/2014/06/10/pure-di/)
at the application's [composition root](http://blog.ploeh.dk/2011/07/28/CompositionRoot/).
In particular, every component has a *factory* associated with it, through which
it will get its dependencies.

```typescript
const counter = (/* Dependencies. */) => (args: {initalValue: number}) {

    const count = args.initialValue || 0

    // For conciseness, variables holding references to HTML elements are
    // prefixed with "$" by convention.
    const $count = span({}, count)

    const $el = div({}, [
        button({onclick: decrement}, '-'),
        $count,
        button({onclick: increment}, '+')
    ])

    function decrement() {
        count--
        $count.textContent = count
    }

    function increment() {
        count++
        $count.textContent = count
    }

    // In order for other components to incorporate this one, a read-only
    // reference to the local HTML root is returned as part of the public
    // interface.
    return {$el, decrement, increment}
}
```

As you may have noticed, Soil leverages type safety through TypeScript.

The best path forward to continue learning the principles of Soil is to check
out the [examples](https://github.com/inad9300/Soil/tree/master/examples/)
available on this repository, and eventually dive into the [source code](https://github.com/inad9300/Soil/tree/master/src).

## Installation
*An npm package is on the making.*

## Contributions
Please, feel free and encouraged to [open new discussions](https://github.com/inad9300/Soil/issues)
on any non-technical topic that may help maturing Soil. For technical
contributions, merge requests are also welcomed.

## License
The Soil project is licensed under the [GNU Affero General Public License](https://github.com/inad9300/Soil/blob/master/LICENSE).
